American-Muslim Salaman you know what Alexeyevitch mean.
Welcome back to new tutorial on robot operating system and now it is time to write.
As a subscriber to the laser scanner.
The previous videos.
I have presented.
Laser scanners using the camera and these are real findings and they have also presented how to connect
them how to visualize them using Arbys how to store them using grows back and how to play them from
backlight.
In this video we are going to write our first real snow to subscribe to this kind of topic and to process
it.
Let me first clarify the process.
First of all we need to start the drivers of the laser scanner whatever it is you R.G. or the like Lytro
camera or any other device.
If you have an ethernet if you don't have a device you can also start a robot file which you can find
on the site.
You have a repository of the course and then you have to make sure that the scan topic is available
so that when you subscribe to it you are sure that you receive messages in the callback function that
you like.
Let us know that we subscribe to this topic and then the callback function it will receive the messages
and process them for example to calculate the mean age the maximum range the average range and the different
average statistics.
So let's see how it works in practice.
Let's get started with the Python code of the root node subscriber with the laser scanner.
So here in Topeka for such a laser we can click on skun subscriber.
So basically misfile the main function it initialises.
No it is called the No.
And here it will just start and you subscribe using last find subscriber and if you subscribe to the
topic scan.
This is the type of the messages Laserscope and this is the name of the callback function.
OK.
So we need to import the laser scan message Rob sensor image just that energy and also we define the
scan callback and data here present the scandale and that be the seat from the sensor.
Let me connect now.
There you are.
Here is a scanner just to make a refresher.
And we start a Scott and me I will start there you know.
Now are we to make or stop this.
So this is the topic that we are going to substract with and then what data were going to collect is
the data that will get inside the topic so we can make of course come OK and this is the data that we
got.
So basically we have under me under the max agreement three months time maximum raised minimum wage
and then we have an array that contains the list of ranges from the minimal angle to the maximum and
OK.
So remember that these Unger's are expressed in review.
So basically this is the structure of the scanned message that we are going to receive.
And we can extract this information by OK so in the pullback method we have received a message data
so that we can scan data and basically in the scan callback you're going to print some statistics for
example with and then the minimum raise by the maximum raised by the average age value and also the
average between two indices so year.
I have defined a couple of my function I'm going to describe below for example this function is going
to retire the minimum age and the index of the minimum range.
OK.
And this function is going to return the maximum range and the index of the maximum range of course
it takes us improving the array of ranges.
So here we have underlaid that is called dreariest inside the callback function.
We have the object scan data and inside scan data we have a great rageous.
So this array will be input to a method that they have to be that below I'm going to explain and then
we're going to extract the value the maximum range so the maximum value even just and also the index
that corresponds to the maximum the age when we do the same for calculating the average value.
OK.
And we will agree as you put here.
Also the average between two indices.
This is the average value among all the values in the ranges and this is the average wedding for example
between index to an index.
So we can use any kind of next year whatever we want the left side the right side or in the middle.
OK.
Let me correct the spelling error for these two methods so it's actually a very powerful language and
it has a lot of tools and libraries that make it easier actually to extract the maximum values from
energy.
For example the method mean rage index that you are going to call about here.
We're going to apply the punch me that is defined in Python which takes the argument the meaning is
going just to return the minimum by date so minimum wage is going to be returned by the method ranges.
And then we can use ranges that index and then we will provide the minimum each year.
It's going to return it's index.
That's why this mean rage index is going to return both the range and also the index.
And this is the output of the method year.
It's going to be two values the minimum wage and the index of the minimum wage.
Same thing will be for the maximum wage index.
OK.
We're going to return the maximum range and the index of the maximum range using the same thing instead
of using the method we were going to use the method Maxentius really defined in Python OK and can be
applied on ranges.
OK something very important here.
So we have observed that some of the values can actually equal to 9.
So let me check here.
Yes you can see.
So we have to deal with that.
We need to find the maximum value such that it is different from the okay whatever it is the maximum
or the minimum value for that.
We don't have any problem.
But for maximum value or turtling the average if you don't discard the number.
OK.
At the end the results will be equal to none because it is not defined.
So what we can do here.
We can't filter out the non-value so is equil every x inside ranges if x is not enough.
So we use here the function is none that is defined in the module.
OK so if it is not not in this case ranges OK will contain the Exabyte.
Otherwise the x value will be discarded.
So here we're going to discard all the non blanks so that when we apply the me on ranges and the max
on the list we are sure that we are going to apply them on the double values and not undefined values.
So since the ranges First of all we think that the range is from the volumes or undefined values.
And then we're going to use some changes is going to return to some.
And then we will divide the sum by the length of ranges.
So here we need to do small cast on float such that you we return a float value for the average So the
average range is some of our ranges divided by the total number of ranges and the same thing is for
the average between two indices.
So here instead of specifying only the range sixty five range and also the first index and the last
index we figure out then undefine it values and then we slice the array.
So in Python you can use a slicing.
So we're going to select all the values in ranges from index type to the index plus 1.
OK because this index will be excluding.
So if you want to read it and get really to make it between I and J plus 1.
And finally we're going to make the average on this slices array.
OK the sum of the size array divided by the length of the slice is going to return the average distance
between these two indices.
OK that's pretty much it.
Now in the callback function you're going to call the different methods that we have defined below.
And then Niccol on our program and check how it works.
OK so now we have already the driver around.
Now I can run us run was essentially CVP then we have scanned subscriber that by.
OK so you can see now it is actually calculating.
Let me stop it.
OK so the minimum range value is 0.07 the index is 44.
OK the maximum range is five point ninety so you can see it can look up to five meters and the index
is fifty nine.
The average rate is one point sixty seven or 76 and the average between that and this is two and 70s
zero point zero eighty.
Of course these values can change from one scan to another.
You can see that we have the callback function is going to be called ten times the second because it
operates on 10 hurts.
OK so if we make this topic go OK this is the time we do point one.
It means every second that are done.
Scan by.
OK so this final call was actually able to find the maximum value.
And of course you'll be just displaying information.
But now for example if you have the laser on the Robert we can use this information in order to avoid
obstacles.
For example we can try to find out what is the minimum resteal Robert.
And then if it is in the left side you try to move towards the right right side.
And if the obstacle is the closest obstacle is the right side.
We try to move to the left side and so on.
So we can develop application logic.
For example you can also make an alarm system.
OK.
If we have an object that comes very close to the laser in this case for example we can make an alarm
or if the robot is moving we can't force it to stop so that it doesn't crash through the obstacle to
implement application logic by assessing the information coming from the laser scanner.
For the moment as already mentioned we are just playing diminished but now we have all the tools in
order to implement the application logic.
So we're going to have an assignment where we are going to practice on processing delays this kind of
information the callback function is the next video.
I'm going to show how we can write a subscriber in C++.